documents/Requirement Specification.md, before:

# Requirement Specification

## I. Current Situation

Thanks to the development of technology over the past decade, video editing has become easier and more powerful than ever before. Evidence of this appears all around us in our daily lives. Not to be confused with a video host or live streaming solution, multi-video editing software is another essential program for synching two different videos. multi-video editing software performs several tasks related to video alteration. The software allows you to mix multiple video sources to create a professional-looking HD movie. Encoding is another major function of this software .The beauty of most multi-video editing software is that they help you produce those professional-grade movies without much experience.

## II. Dream System

The main goal of this software is that it allows the user to make there own movies with the help of joining multiple videos together. You can import all of those videos from your library and paste them together. you can also use different formats of video as it supports it and offers an intuitive interface. Key features of this product are the ability to edit and even provide music if you want. You can be your own movie producer. It provides all items needed for that, such as muting/synching or removing undesirable parts. There is also a preview option you can check in real time every change made on the video. With this software, videos can be cropped and even divided into several parts and segments. You can also reassemble sequences of various videos. After everything is completed you can save your work and select the format you want it to be in.

## III. Current Processes(adi)
// manual multi-videos


## V. Required features (Khizr)

- The video creator/editor it must be able to stitch not just videos together into one video but allow for placement   of images into the mix of videos.

- There must be a region in the software which contains the editing features underneath the viewport, the viewport    will have a feature allowing the user to arrange the videos/images in the layout they would like.

- There must be an option allowing the user to mute videos individually.

- In the editing work space the user must be able to align the videos in the order they would like, they also must    be able to to seek through the video giving them more in depth editing features.

## VI. System Direction / Guidelines (adi)
// quality focus
// less dynamic

## VII. Requirement List(Khizr)

### Deployment requirements
- The video creator is expected to be deployed on a Windows PC.
- Since it is a simple editing software it will only require basic hardware to run.
- The software can be ported to linux to allow for more users.

###  Functional requirements

#### UI

- Easy to pick up with all necessary features available easily.
- A viewport allowing a preview and alignment of the videos and pictures.
- Work space with the video files shown as tracks for easy editing.

#### Build

- Software must be an executable file.

#### Exporting

- Software must be able to export the edited video file into a separate file with the format chosen by the user.

#### Importing

- Software should be able to import video files of multiple different formats easily.

## VII. Dictionary
Seek : Play the current video or audio for the specified time position.
Plot : Segment, divide.
Media : Images, Audio and Video.

Commit message:

Added Current Processes and System Direction/ Guidelines

documents/Requirement Specification.md, after:

# Requirement Specification

## I. Current Situation

Thanks to the development of technology over the past decade, video editing has become easier and more powerful than ever before. Evidence of this appears all around us in our daily lives. Not to be confused with a video host or live streaming solution, multi-video editing software is another essential program for synching two different videos. multi-video editing software performs several tasks related to video alteration. The software allows you to mix multiple video sources to create a professional-looking HD movie. Encoding is another major function of this software .The beauty of most multi-video editing software is that they help you produce those professional-grade movies without much experience.

## II. Dream System

The main goal of this software is that it allows the user to make there own movies with the help of joining multiple videos together. You can import all of those videos from your library and paste them together. you can also use different formats of video as it supports it and offers an intuitive interface. Key features of this product are the ability to edit and even provide music if you want. You can be your own movie producer. It provides all items needed for that, such as muting/synching or removing undesirable parts. There is also a preview option you can check in real time every change made on the video. With this software, videos can be cropped and even divided into several parts and segments. You can also reassemble sequences of various videos. After everything is completed you can save your work and select the format you want it to be in.

## III. Current Processes(adi)

- There are already video amalagamation/collage software for use on the market. These are mostly used for social media applications.

- Since their use cases are mostly for social media, these applications/software are designed with minimal focus on quality.

- It could be even argued that these applications mostly aim to compress these videos because of the platforms theyre posted on.

- Going back to the use case of these applications they tend to be only available as phone or web applications.


## V. Required features (Khizr)

- The video creator/editor it must be able to stitch not just videos together into one video but allow for placement   of images into the mix of videos.

- There must be a region in the software which contains the editing features underneath the viewport, the viewport    will have a feature allowing the user to arrange the videos/images in the layout they would like.

- There must be an option allowing the user to mute videos individually.

- In the editing work space the user must be able to align the videos in the order they would like, they also must    be able to to seek through the video giving them more in depth editing features.

## VI. System Direction / Guidelines (adi)

- The development guidelines are formulated based on the points mentioned before in current processes and the required features.

- This sofware that is going to be delivered is a custom proprietary one to directly cater to specific customer needs.

- Since the application is being used for sports broadcasting replays a picutre in picutre mode is mandatory if not necessary. Care must be taken to give full control of the alignment of the videos to the customer.

- Because of its use in broadcast replays it is necessary that the videos being imported should retain the same quality. Since external libraries are used to import the videos, the team needs to make sure to pick the right one to support this.
  Video imports can be built from the ground up to accommodate this ideology but time constraints need to be considered. This also applies to the video export features as well.	

- Along with quality, video/audio formats and framerates also need to be taken into consideration.

- Taking point number two into consideration the UI must directly cater to the customers needs more than the necessity of it being well designed as the target demographic is not a broad one.

## VII. Requirement List(Khizr)

### Deployment requirements
- The video creator is expected to be deployed on a Windows PC.
- Since it is a simple editing software it will only require basic hardware to run.
- The software can be ported to linux to allow for more users.

###  Functional requirements

#### UI

- Easy to pick up with all necessary features available easily.
- A viewport allowing a preview and alignment of the videos and pictures.
- Work space with the video files shown as tracks for easy editing.

#### Build

- Software must be an executable file.

#### Exporting

- Software must be able to export the edited video file into a separate file with the format chosen by the user.

#### Importing

- Software should be able to import video files of multiple different formats easily.

## VII. Dictionary
Seek : Play the current video or audio for the specified time position.
Plot : Segment, divide.
Media : Images, Audio and Video.
